This folder contains a series of small scripts that build upon the SPCA implementation from the parent folder.


# Sanity checks

The files `test_SPCA_coherence.R` and `test_SPCA_properties.R` do some basic checks to the SPCA implementation
to do a basic validation of the algorithm.


# Robustness simulation study

All the files prefixed with `robust_sim_study_` are relevant to the robustness simulation study from the thesis, section 4.
The files that are suffixed with `_study.R` take the data generated by the other files and compute all the performance metrics.

 - `robust_sim_study_outliers.R` applies SPCA to some contaminated data.
 There are a series of variables at the beginning that define the settings of the contamination;
 in particular, all the contaminations used in the thesis are present (but commented).
 Therefore, one only needs to uncomment the relevant lines to reproduce all the experiments in the thesis.
 This script asks to save the data to an `.RData` file.
 
 - `robust_sim_study_outliers_study.R` computes the performance metrics of the data generated by the previous file.
 A setting at the top of the script specifies from which file to load the data.
 
 - `robust_sim_study_no_outliers.R` is very similar to `robust_sim_study_outliers.R`, except it doesn't contaminate the data.
 Instead, it just compares SPCA with rSPCA and saves the data to an `.RData` file.
 
 - `robust_sim_study_no_outliers_plots.R` is similar to `robust_sim_study_outliers_study.R`, but aims at studying the data
 from the direct comparison of SPCA and rSPCA in the absence of outliers.
 This script also produces the plots seen in the thesis.


# RTT data

There is also a series of files that contain experiments related to the RTT data:

 - `explore_RTT.R` contains a series of useful plots used to explore the RTT data in the beginning of the experiments.

 - `SPCA_RTT.R` applies the SPCA method to the RTT data thoroughly, going through all the different settings for SPCA.
 
 - `SPCA_heuristic.R` takes the RTT data, uses SPCA to estimate some interval-valued principal components,
 and then applies a modification of the heuristic method to detect outliers (i.e., relay attacks).
 
 
# Misc

The file `iris_test.R` provides an initial application of the SPCA method to the well-known iris dataset.

The file `malpis_presentation.R` contains a couple of (irrelevant) experiments/plots used to prepare a presentation given by the author.